Hey database experts and app
developers. Do you want to
build faster and run bigger
workloads? We've got you covered
with an exclusive free download
of data stacks. Enterprise DataStax
enterprise works with all the
latest tools like Kafka and
Docker with incredible throughput and
the best security download data
stacks enterprise for free today
by visiting DataStax that's DAA,
T a S T a
x.com/download D S E that's
the DataStax enterprise for free
visit datastax.com/download D S E.
Hi, Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Joe Duffy,
founder and CEO of Poloma
CorePower user. I'm excellent. Glad
to be here, Scott. I
noticed I was over on
the.net blog at Microsoft and,
you know, they don't let
everybody guest post, but there
was an actual guest post
from the Poloma team about
the  project. And I
thought that was pretty cool.
And so I was like,
I'm going to start digging
into this and learning about
what's going on here. And
it says infrastructure as code.
What does infrastructure as code?
Yeah, it's, it's not a
term that many of us
developers are familiar with. Certainly
even before starting salumi, I
wasn't very deeply engaged in
doing infrastructure as code. What
infrastructure is code is, is,
is essentially when you want
to build a cloud application,
maybe it uses containers, maybe
is a serverless. You need
to deal with infrastructure. Infrastructure
is the stuff that powers
or cloud applications, the virtual
machines it's the clusters, the
containers themselves infrastructure is code
as a way of managing
that infrastructure actually just using
code. So instead of completely
stepping outside of your programming
language, your editor to go
deal with infrastructure, you can
actually just program it from
within your, your code. And
by doing that, you get
automation. It's, it's basically just
like all the benefits of
writing code it's it's automatic
rate. You can automate things,
you can version it like
code, you can collaborate on
it like code, it works
in your editor. You can
share and reuse things with
package managers, all this stuff
we know about code now
applies to infrastructure, as you're
saying. Okay. So I just
Googled something real quick because
many, many, many years ago,
if you go and search
for PowerShell, large scale Hanselman,
it looks like July of
2007. So 12 years ago,
a PowerShell 1.0 was out.
And this is very long
time ago. I wrote a
white paper called managing large
scale system deployment with windows
PowerShell. This was like before
we knew what the cloud
was. So a large scale
was not quite a thing.
This is even before I
think the idea of, of
a DSC desired state configuration.
And we went and built
out data centers with PowerShell.
And one of the things
that we struggled with was
this idea of declarative versus
programmatic. You know, do you
make an engine versus do
you describe what you want?
And then if you do
describe what you want, how
do you get into that
state and how do you
avoid invalid States? And again,
12 years ago, but it
was basically an XML file
that described a pod that
described an environment and the
different roles of stuff. And
then we had an engine
that was built in PowerShell
that basically did whatever it
could to get the system
where we wanted, but this
is XML and WMI and
calm and D and it
was cool, but not really
very reliable where we reaching
for some Nirvana that we're
starting to actually hit with
products like presuming I think
so I, in the last,
you know, 10, 12 years,
let's say, you know, the
term dev ops has, has
come to come into being,
we've seen tools like, you
know, frankly, PowerShell, but also
things like chef and puppet
Ansible SaltStack a lot of
these technologies have become popular
and commonplace. And the modern
cloud is far more programmable
in it's by its very
nature. You know, the Azure
platform, it exposes APIs for
literally everything that it does.
And so it used to
be the case. There's a
very human driven activity to
do anything with it. Anything
with management, you'd have consoles
that you point and click
around now, everything has an
API. And so that, that
enables you to now build
programming models on top of
those APIs. And that's ultimately
why Poloma is possible. Now
still a lot of infrastructure's
code tools. These days still
use, you know, Jason or
Yammel not, not XML anymore,
but similar concept where you're
basically expressing a desired state
using a markup language. And
the problem with that is
monitoring cloud architectures. It tends
to be a lot of
moving pieces. There's a lot
of complexity. And so actually
using a programming language to
declare your desired state. And
that's a key important differentiation
that Fluney is still desired
state based, even though you're
writing code in a full
blown programming language, but you
don't have to repeat, you
know, recreate the wheel all
the time. You can use
everything we know and love
about languages and apply it
to desired state. So if
you have patterns that recur
from time to time, you
can express those, but absolutely
that the modern progress in
modern clouds is really what
enables these sorts of tools
to exist. So it's that
programmatic programmatic ability programmability. I
was presenting recently in trying
and someone said, well, what's
the cloud, the cloud is
just other people's computers. And
I was like, yeah, I
mean, that's, that's part of
it. Right. But it's being
able to programmatically talk to
it and say, I want
something. And you do the
racking of the machine. You
add more memory. Like we,
we, you and I were
the cloud back in the
day like, Hey, I want,
I want to scale out,
all right, I'll buy a
machine and I'll rack it.
And now the what, what
the cloud is, is it's
elastic newness, right? That's the
magic of the cloud. It
is it's, it's the magic
of the elasticity, the reliability,
the global availability. You know,
we work with a lot
of big companies that still
have to manage data centers
across the world and that's,
that's expensive business. And, and
frankly, you're probably not going
to be as good at
it as say, Microsoft Microsoft's
operations team who can make
sure that Azure continues to
run reliably. And, you know,
Microsoft's got a lot of
really smart engineers building these
cloud services and making sure
that they're reliable and, and,
and fail safe and, and
built in a performance and
scalable way. And you can
leverage all of that expertise
by using the cloud instead
of having to develop it
on your own. So, so
back in the day when
I was kind of like
probing this space 10 plus
years ago, it was trying
to be a declaration, right?
We're all trying to create
a Dom effectively that describes
the state of our data
center. Right. And, and me
lets you do that, that,
that Dom, that description, that
object model, but in whatever
language makes you happy Effectively.
Yes. So polygamy is multilanguage,
it's a, it's a runtime.
So at, at the core,
at the heart of it
is exactly this sort of
Dom, it's like a cloud
object model that represents all
of the different cloud capabilities.
And, and although we work
great on Azure, we also
support, you know, AWS, Google
cloud Kubernetes, which is, you
know, really important to us.
We have actually three dozen
different providers and each one
of those is essentially a
dozen. And then we project.
Wow. Yes. Yeah. So DigitalOcean
new Relic Datadog get hub
lab. Cause it, it turns
out, you know, modern cloud.
Isn't just about the cloud.
It's also about SAS, right?
Oftentimes you're using, you know,
maybe MailChimp to send email
from your application. Maybe you're
using new Relic to, to
do performance monitoring. And all
of that is infrastructure that
you need to manage and
provision. So we support that.
And then we, we basically
project that Dom into all
different languages we support. So
the reason why you saw
the.net post is we just
added.net core support. So you
can actually write your infrastructure's
code using C sharp F
sharp, visual basic. We haven't
yet dusted off the Fortran
or cobalt versions, but you
know, that's, that's coming and
also PowerShell. And so it's
super powerful. You can use
TypeScript, Python, you know, whatever
suits you. So by doing
that, you're getting familiar language.
But more than that, you
can benefit from the ecosystems
of tooling that has been
built around these different languages
When, but who are the
who's the competition. Like I
just said that I'm, you
know, I was messing around
and I only say it
in the lightest of ways,
you know, 12 years ago.
Cause everyone's been trying to
do this forever. Aren't there
other declarative programming languages or
declarative formats for, for cloud.
How does, how does gloomy
rate relate to those? Yeah,
it's interesting, You know, along
this journey of dev ops
and infrastructure as code, you
know, that the term infrastructure
is code is probably eight,
10 years old. You know,
if you look on Wikipedia,
there's a lot of examples.
I mentioned, you know, chef
puppet and those tools were
more around virtual machine configuration
and people still use those
tools. But now as we're
moving more towards container and
serverless architectures, they're used less
and less frequently and in
its place because of this
desired state model, we sort
of reverted to writing everything
in Yammel Jason and scientific
languages, which then hits the
wall at some point. So
a lot of times, you
know, we'll see, Hey, we
copied and pasted the same
Yammel, you know, over and
over again, we needed 10
instances of this certain resource
configured, basically the same. And
because Yammel, doesn't have four
loops, we basically copy and
pasted it. So instead of
having 10 lines of Jamar,
we have, you know, a
hundred lines BMO and it
starts to get unwieldy because,
you know, imagine you fix
a security problem and now
you have to go track
down everywhere else. You copy
and pasted that same problem.
And for some of our
customers, you know, maybe their
consultants they're dealing with, you
know, dozens of, of client
accounts. And now they have
to go back to their
customers and say, Hey, you
know that Yamhill, I gave
you last week, we need
to go fix it. And
so, especially with the current
cloud, you know, modern cloud
is very fine grain. There's
lots of resources to manage
from AI ML services, databases,
object stores, you know, serverless
functions, you know, at that
scale, that level of complexity,
we're seeing just the approach
of using Gamelin domain specific
languages is just breaking down
for most people that we
work with. How, how much
of this is declarative? Like
I like what you said
about a cloud object model
and how much of it
is programmatic. Like you made
a comment about a four
loop. You know, we had
similar problems when we were
trying to express these things
in XML where we were
trying to decide, are we
going to be fully like,
this is a picture of
what it should look like,
figure it out, or are
we going to try to
put in functional, you know,
programmatic constructs and try to
program our way out of
this problem? Yeah. So I,
sometimes I joke that that
prelim is actually implemented. Sure.
I shouldn't have even said
that. It's basically, you know,
you're, you're the, the Dom
itself is declarative, but you're
using an imperative language or
functional, you know, frankly, if
you pick up sharp. So
we've basically decoupled the notion
of how you express your
intent, which has done in
a language with the desired
state. And the key is
that that Dom is something
you can analyze. We actually
give you the Dom. We
actually say, before we do
a deployment, we say, Hey,
here's the Dom, here's the
desired state that we think
you want? Is this correct?
No. Okay. Well, we'll show
you, you know, in your
program where you created this
object and you go fix
that and then say, Hey,
let's, let's give it another,
you know, dry. And then
because we have that Dom,
we can always diff you
know, so we know, Hey,
you're changing this one property.
Or you're, you're creating a
new instance of this. And
in all of that integrates
for us with, you know,
a lot, a lot of
people do get based workflows
where they're actually pushing code
between environments. And so we
can integrate with GitHub pull
requests to show you the
Dom. And so it's really
the, the marriage of the,
of the real, you know,
general purpose languages with this
Dom concept that makes
unique. Is that right? Is
the abstract syntax tree of
it all? Is it, is
it idiomatically the language that
you use or is it
some intermediate language that's halfway
to where your engine can?
Yeah, it's actually one analogy
I kind of draw based
on my background sometimes is
it's almost like think of
how calm worked, right? Where,
you know, calm, you had
projections in different languages. Ultimately
there was the calm object
model and there was an
IDL that kind of described
what that core object model
was. And then there was
an ed Matic as possible
projection into each of the
languages. So like visual basic,
you didn't have to think
about ref counting because in
visual basic, we didn't want
that. But then in C
plus, plus all the ref
counting was at your fingertips
and all the goods and
everything were there. And so
it's kind of a similar
thing with , you know,
for example, our go SDK,
we built that to be
embeddable inside of other products.
And so we actually have
a lot of people that
are building larger systems that
embed that in there. So
it gives you a little
bit more information about the
Dom that you can control.
Whereas, you know, our TypeScript
language support is really targeting
sort of the node JS
developer who really wants to
just create these objects and
stitch them together and use
the, the, the node ecosystem
to do that. And so
it's, it's definitely projected idiomatic
and teach language, but there's
this common core to it,
which is really important, especially
when you're doing, you know,
policy enforcement and security. And,
you know, you know, if
you, if you want visibility
across your organization, knowing that
there's this common object model
that you can analyze and
understand over time is really,
really important. And just to
expand a couple of acronyms
for folks that aren't of
a certain age, when you
said calm and, you know,
the component object model of,
you know, pre.net world to,
you know, late nineties and
then the IDL, the interface
definition language, which was like
wisdom for in process objects.
And then later out of
process objects, it was an
interface definition. So there's this
interface you think of the
cloud as an interface, and
you then have a projection
of that in idiomatic, whatever
language makes you happy and
how many languages do you.
Yes. So we support TypeScript,
JavaScript, Python go, and then
any dotnet core language. So
C sharp F sharp and
VB, Hey friends, I want
to introduce a new sponsor
to you. H M a
VPN. It's a VPN you
can count on. As you
know, I do a lot
of travel and I tend
to connect to a lot
of untrusted wireless networks. And
I probably shouldn't, but I
can use HMA as the
world's largest VPN service offers.
The most server locations covers
190 countries. I was always
a server nearby it doesn't
log your IP address and
allows me to connect five
devices simultaneously works on basically
all platforms, Android, iOS, Mac,
Linux, windows routers, wherever it's
actually been completely redesigned recently
to make it even simpler
and more fun to use.
And there's even a smart
kill switch. That'll turn the
VPN automatically on when you
launch sensitive apps, here's your
call to action. My friends
try HMA VPN risk-free with
a 30 day money back
guarantee. This deal is for
Hanselman its listeners. That's HMA,
vpn.com/offer hyphen Hansel minutes. That's
HMA vpn.com/offer-hansel minutes. And when
we say idiomatic, right, the
goal is to make it
feel not like it's Google
translate where it's like, well,
I see that you're trying
to speak Spanish here, but
it's not really, you are
honestly trying to make C-sharp
people feel comfortable and they're
doing CCRPI type stuff. Well,
Python people feel they're comfortable
when they're using pulling me
in there. That's exactly right.
So in C-sharp we use
tests, you know, task parallelism
and async methods and TypeScript
for using promises and Python
we're using, you know, and
even down to the level
of, you know, getting the
right casing and the right
idiomatic, naming constructs, we really
want you to feel at
home in your language of
choice. It's really important to
us because we actually see,
you know, one of the
founding team members, Luke Hogan
was at Microsoft previously. He
actually was part of the
founding team for TypeScript. And
we often wondered together in
the early days, you know,
as we add new languages
is each one additive. Or
we basically just taking, you
know, imagine there's 100 people
in the world that would
ever use pollute, or we
just, you know, slicing up
that 100, you know, and
dividing and across different language
ecosystems. What we're actually finding
is it is additive. When
we add a dot-net support,
we connected with a totally
different audience than when we
added Python support. And so
there's, this it's really important
to us that we, that
we feel animatic that we're
at home. You feel like
we're at home for those
end users, that you can
use your favorite tools. Like
if you have your own
test framework that you're familiar
with in C-sharp, we want
you to be able to
use that. And so that's
really core to what we
try to do. And then
frankly, it's the hardest part
of, of supporting a new
language for us back to
that horrible Portmanteau that you
just made there, the imperative
versus declarative and new clarity
of there's places like I'm
looking at the dotnet specific
as to I'll make sure
that we include links to
all of this in the
show notes. There's places where
you'll say it's like, like
deployment.run async and then you'll
build kind of with, with
a quasi fluent interface, an
object that like cosmos app
and cosmos app has these
arcs parts of it feel
like you're building a Dom
and then parts of it
have very verb action, you
know, action, verb type stuff
like Renee, is it really
running? Is it really doing
something at that moment? Or
is that a lie? Yeah.
So it's, it's basically declaring
the deployment. When you run
the program using the alumi
CLI it's gonna first run
the program and compute what
we call a preview, sometimes
known as a plan. And
that's going to show you,
it's going to say, what
if the, what if it's
like a dry run and
then the CLI will say,
Hey, is this what you
want to do? Yes, no.
Or show me more details.
If you click, show me
more details, it shows you
the full object graph. You
can inspect it if something
wasn't what you expected, if
you hit yes, then it
actually orchestrates the deployment. And
it just basically applies the
plan that it showed you.
You can run these independently.
Sometimes people, especially, you know,
the get hub pull request
workflow. I mentioned earlier, a
lot of times people want
to see that plan and
the pull request before they
merge it. So they know
that, Hey, when I merge
this, this pull request, it's
going to deploy three functions
and delete, you know, a
container and do all these
things. So that's how the
CLI kind of works in
tandem with the programming model,
When you want something big
made in the cloud and
something small doesn't work. How
does an engine, like, Pilou
me get you into that
state? Like if something happened,
how do you know if
it was a, a transient
thing where like, Oh, well,
you know, AWS or Azure,
couldn't get you a big
VM right now, but try
again, versus, you know, you
ran out of money or
something that stops you in
its tracks. How can you
get a plan that's close
enough versus a plan that
either succeeded or failed? Yeah,
it's a great question. And
honestly, it's interesting being in
our position because we tend
to be the interface into
all these different cloud providers
for our end users. And
so something fails, you know,
it's our responsibility to make
sure it's a great experience
and that's a philosophy we
have on the team. It
doesn't matter if, you know,
Hey, Azure timed out for
some reason, or, you know,
the, the person didn't have
enough money in their account.
Like we, we view that
as core to our experience.
We want it to be
a great experience. Now that
said it's difficult. So what
we do is when you,
when you do that preview
step, we actually validate as
much as we can. We
actually go out to the
cloud provider or we say,
Hey, here's what we're going
to do. Does this look
valid to you? Surface is
basically, you know, sort of
our background in programming languages,
right? You want to find
as many errors as close
to writing the code as
possible. And so we do
as much as we can
in the editor, as you're
typing, you know, red squiggles,
and then during the preview.
And the worst case is
if it fails during a
deployment, but even in that
case, we, we come back
and we tell you exactly
what line of code it
was. And another important thing
is, as you're doing deployments,
salumi is transactionally checkpointing state.
So that no matter what
happens, if you fail, you're
in a known state, you
can choose to roll back
if you want, but you're
always in a known well-defined
state. And so we've made
sure because things fail right?
Re entire regions go offline,
you know, billing as you,
as you point out, sometimes
you might not have permissions
to do the operation you're
trying to do, because you
know, you're in an organization
that has locked down, you
know, security permissions. So we've
tried to make that a
great experience. We also protect
against common failures. Like, you
know, we do retries at
the right time, you know,
in case there is a
transient network problems. So that
try to insulate you from
as many of those failures
as possible, Really significant because
there is the, you know,
going back to my naive
implementation many years ago, when
we got into a, we
don't know what state we're
in, but you know, some
stuff got made and good
luck. It was basically just
torch it and try again
was the best we could
do. There wasn't any kind
of granularity and there was
minimal governance or policy management.
Yeah. That's one of the
biggest arguments for using infrastructures
code tool is, you know,
that sort of infrastructure, maturity
life cycle that we see
is, you know, step one,
most people go into the
Azure console or 80 of
us console point and click
to provision some things they're
just exploring their learning. That's
perfectly fine. Most people learn
that way. And the problem
then comes, you know, Hey,
maybe you want a second
copy of that. Maybe you
want production and staging. Maybe
you want to share it
with a colleague and have
them stand up their own
copy, or you need to
scale, you know, to a
new region at that point,
you need automation. And the
obvious way to do automation
is to open code, you
know, provisioning of new resources.
But the problem is exactly
what you point out where
if it fails. Now, your
script has to think about
every possible permutation of failure
and every state transition. And
that's what an infrastructure's code
tool fundamentally does. It knows
the desired state, and it
knows how to converge on
that desired state, no matter
what state you are currently
in. And that, that removes
a ton of complexity that
you just don't need to
think about it anymore. That
is, that is the trick
though. Like all of this
is trying to hide complexity,
but also it shouldn't feel
like a black box that
is hidden so much that
you just throw your wishes,
you know, into the well
and hope that things work
out nicely. So how do
you find that balance? You
said that you can give
them line numbers. You, you
follow it all the way
back to the projection and
say the engine failed here,
but in your projection, that's
line 26. Exactly. We, we
treat this, you know, a
lot of folks on the
team come from visual studio
and, and.net and, you know,
compilers and languages. And so
we've, we've treated the whole
infrastructure as code experience. Like
we would a programming language
or a compiler, and frankly,
over time where, you know,
we love vs code and
we're, we're kind of integrating
more deeply into that and
bringing more things, just closer
to the development experience. And
so, you know, cause we
talk to people a lot
of times when something fails,
it's, you know, 10, 10
minutes into a deployment, it's
kind of already too late.
Production is now potentially suffering
an outage. And it's kind
of like some transient failure.
You had a pile of
Yammel and it's not even
clear where the failure came
from. And so we're really
trying to bring a great
developer experience to infrastructure, which
is, is pretty unique. I
think, cause a lot of,
a lot of the, you
know, we we've been on
this journey for a long
time and I think our
standards for what's acceptable in
the infrastructure space are actually
much lower than what our
standards are in the application
developer space. We're, we're willing
to tolerate messy, hard to
diagnose failures for some reason.
I think it's just historically
how we ended up here.
And so we're trying to
revisit that The, the, the
larger Poloma kind of cloud
development platform, isn't just this
runtime, right. There's tools, there's
libraries, there's runtime. The goal
of which is to give
you that consistent development, that
consistent operational plane for everything.
How much does it try
to hide? Like pretend that
we don't even know what
cloud we're on versus how
much is it really straightforward
with you about, about the
realities of what you're doing?
Like how much do you
abstract away and how much
do you decidedly not abstract
away. Yeah. Was a great
question. We, we intentionally, so
the system's sort of layered.
We intentionally don't abstract away
at the fundamental building block
layer. So I think of
it as, you know, it's
turtles all the way down,
right? It's a programming language.
So everything's classes and functions
and things compose, but everything
bottoms out at that. Basically
the Dom that we were
talking about, where you've got
access to every cloud provider,
all of the resources and
all the properties on those
resources in their raw form,
we don't get in the
way we don't want to
abstract over it. If you're
going to Azure using cosmos
DB, we want you to
have the latest and greatest
features and be able to
use them fully now where
it starts to get interesting
is we can actually give
you help our libraries, but
still the next layer up
is still cloud specific. So
you mentioned we were actually
on the release and Azure
blog in partnership with the
cosmos DB team, this distributed
application concept where oftentimes people,
you know, will provision a
cosmos database, but then their
application isn't globally distributed. So
it's, it's not taking advantage
of the latency savings of
the database. And so we
can give you a cosmos
application, a component is what
we call it. And that
just hides a lot of
the infrastructure complexity, but you
still know you're using Azure
in that case. And so
that's sort of like this
middle layer where we can
help you with common patterns
so you can frankly build
your own. And then we
do see some people taming
the complexity of having to
do multiple clouds using abstractions.
So one of our customers,
they run an Azure, but
they also have to run
on prem. And so let's
call them Acme Corp. They
were able to create, you
know, an Acme Corp virtual
machine abstraction that knows how
to at deployment time, either
go to Azure or go
to vSphere VMware vSphere on
prem, and that's allowed them,
you know, it's not, it's
not hiding the complexity, but
it helps to encapsulate some
of the complexity and enables
other people on the team
to think at a different
level of abstraction. Right? So
now application developers can create
applications out of composing Acme,
Corp, virtual machines, without having
to completely replicate their configuration
for the two different environments.
And so we see a
lot, you know, increasingly more
of that, and we're really
excited about the sort of
blueprints and patterns there, but
fundamentally you can always Pierce
through the abstraction and get
at the raw underlying cloud.
And I think that's essential
because you see some platforms
as a service that have
come in to where it
works great for sort of
development. But then when you
go into production, you have
to completely rewrite everything because
it had too much from
you is they're trying to
strike a nice balance between
that abstraction in the level
of precision and control that
most enterprises need. So given
the space, which is arguably
somewhat crowded and has been,
you know, developing since, you
know, puppet in 2005, what
does Poloma do that kind
of uniquely sets it aside
from the various and sundry,
you know, list of a
dozen similar, if not coming
on, they're not directly similarly
like one-to-one features, but like
where do you say, Oh
yeah, you should use polygamy
rather than My answer to
this now is different than
it would have been at
the start. You know, at
the start I thought it
was. And honestly, it's, it's
more of a people thing
than it is a technology
thing. I thought it was
technology. I thought it was,
Hey, general purpose languages. You
know, it solves a bunch
of problems, technical problems, right?
Package management, you get, you
know, better editor experience sharing
and reuse. What we're finding
with is actually it's the
fact that now infrastructure and
operations teams can actually work
with development teams together historically
they've had completely different stacks,
right? So the dev team
was working on their app
stack and then the infrastructure
team is working on, you
know, chef puppet or what
have you, where, and that
sort of reinforced some of
the silos where, you know,
if developers need new infrastructure,
they file a ticket and
they wait for the it
team to provision it. And
then they get back, you
know, maybe a month later
or a quarter later. Whereas
now what we're seeing is,
especially with the rate of
change in modern cloud architectures
and things workflows that are
unlocked by technologies like serverless
containers and Kubernetes, we're actually
seeing that infrastructure teams want
to empower their developers to
be a lot more self-serve
if a developer wants a
queue or a pump sub
topic, or, you know, a
new container or a new
Azure function or whatever it
is, they want to be
able to have their teams
do that. But the infrastructure
team wants to put in
place guardrails to make sure
that developers don't accidentally do
the wrong thing. And so
we see developers really like
it because they get to
use their favorite language. They
basically supercharge their, their ability
to build more powerful cloud
applications. While at the same
time, the infrastructure team feels
comfortable and they can still
get the, the management and
policies and oversight that they
need. And so it's really
that developer appeal that I
think sets it really apart
from, from most of what's
out there, I noticed that
I can go and install
the preliminary CLI I can
install stuff on my local
machine, but just while you
were talking, I went to
app dot  dot com
logged in with GitHub, said,
I use Azure and C
sharp click, click, click, and
now I'm doing it all
in the cloud. And I
just, I've given like basically
a one liner that I
run to get the things
that I want to get.
And what is the relationship
between the CLI and this
console on the cloud? Yeah.
So I often describe this
using an analogy. So, you
know, the CLI you can
think of as like get,
right, it's an offline tool.
You can run it fully
offline if you want, you
can use it without our
service, but our service is
kind of like get hub
in the sense that get
plus get hub is a
lot easier. It just handles
a lot of problems for
you. If you want to
use it in your organization,
it makes it easier to
share your projects. And so
that's essentially what the preemie
service is all about. The
preemie service is, you know,
it's the default mode that
we recommend people use that
makes it just really reliable.
So everything you're doing is
when I mentioned the transactional
checkpointing, it's using the service
to do that. It's giving
a visibility. So if you
do deployments, you're going to
get full history, similar to
how get hub gives you
commit history with blimey, you'll
see your full deployment history.
And because when you logged
in you, you did it
with get hub. If you're
actually triggering deployments from get
hub itself, watch a show
you the commit itself. So
we'll, we'll show you every
deployment who performed the deployment,
what commit it came from,
what pull requests that came
from them for using the
pull request workflow. And then
if you want to use
a team, you can sign
up a new organization. And
that gives you all the
standard things around an organization
like, you know, role based
access control. You can more
easily share and work and
collaborate on shared projects. You
can have, you know, continuous
integration so that you can
get, you know, service accounts
where you're, you're doing deployments
automatically rather than manually. And
then other other features as
well around just, you know,
security and compliance. And you'll
notice that it's, it's base
basically a SAS model. And
so that's a model for
the company. You know, we,
we open sourced the whole
SDK though. It's there, we
didn't hold anything back. And
the part that we charge
for is just the size.
Now it turns out there's
a free tier as well
for unlimited use. It's really
just when you want to
use similar to how you
get free, you know, individual
repos on GitHub, right? You
get the same with polygamy,
but once you want to
use organizations, that's, that's when
you pay. And even then,
you know, you get started,
it's $50 a month for
three people. It's, it's pretty,
pretty affordable at that point.
Okay. So would you recommend
that people just hit to
that prelim.com walk through the
process? It's like a five
minute Thing to get a
hello world, pulling me out
running, and then a weekend
to take whatever they've already
got going and set it
up for themselves. Yeah, absolutely.
There is, you know, app.plume.com.
There's also, you just go
to pluming.com. There's these getting
started buttons. We call it
action. Blue, you click any
of those buttons will take
you through walkthroughs. And as
you point out, it says,
Hey, which cloud do you
want? Which language do you
want? And then it just
walks you through building a
simple application. And then we've
got over a hundred tutorials
now for lots of different
application architectures. Very cool. Well,
thank you very much, Joe Duffy
for chatting with me today.
Yeah. Thanks Scott. It was
a lot of fun. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.